# Exam Prep

[AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate (SAA-C03) Exam Guide](https://d1.awsstatic.com/training-and-certification/docs-sa-assoc/AWS-Certified-Solutions-Architect-Associate_Exam-Guide.pdf)

Task Statement 1.1: Design secure access to AWS resources.

AWS IAM Exam Skills in:

- Applying AWS security best practices to IAM users and root users (for example, multi-factor authentication [MFA])
- Designing a flexible authorization model that includes IAM users, groups, roles, and policies
- Designing a role-based access control strategy (for example, AWS Security Token Service [AWS STS], role switching,
  cross-account access)

# AWS IAM Identities

An IAM identity provides access to an AWS account.

Each IAM identity can be associated with one or more policies. Policies determine what actions a user, role, or member
of a user group can perform, on which AWS resources, and under what conditions.

## IAM Users

- An IAM user is an entity that you create within your AWS account to represent the person or service that interacts
  with AWS resources.
- IAM users have permanent credentials (access key ID and secret access key) or temporary credentials (generated by AWS
  STS, Security Token Service) associated with them.
- IAM users are typically used when you want to grant long-term access to AWS resources for individuals or services.

## IAM Roles

- IAM roles are often used for temporary access or when you want to grant access to AWS resources across different AWS
  accounts.
- Roles do not have permanent credentials associated with them. Instead, they are intended to be assumed by entities
  such as IAM users, AWS services, or even external users (via federated access).

# AWS CLI

Let's assume into AWS using the AWS CLI with an IAM User and an IAM user.

## Install AWS CLI

Windows Installation:

1. Download and run the AWS CLI MSI installer for Windows (64-bit): https://awscli.amazonaws.com/AWSCLIV2.msi
2. Open terminal and check to see if aws-cli is installed:

```commandline
aws --version
```

## Create IAM Access Keys

These steps will create access keys for programmatic access.

Create your access keys

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/
2. In the navigation pane of the IAM console, select Users and then select the User name of the user that you
   created
   previously.
3. On the user's page, select the Security credentials page. Then, under Access keys, select Create access key.
4. For Create access key Step 1, choose Command Line Interface (CLI).
5. For Create access key Step 2, enter an optional tag and select Next.
6. For Create access key Step 3, select Download .csv file to save a .csv file with your IAM user's access key and
   secret access key. You need this information for later.
7. Select Done.

## Adding credentials to `~/.aws/credentials`

1. Create or open the shared AWS credentials file. This file is `~/.aws/credentials` on Linux and macOS systems, and
   `%USERPROFILE%\.aws\credentials` on Windows.

# AWS CLI Commands

Using the AWS CLI you can do whatever you can do in the UI but programmatically.

## AWS STS Command

Returns details about the IAM user or role whose credentials are used to call the operation aka who is signed in.

```commandline
aws sts get-caller-identity
```

## Listing IAM Users

```commandline
aws iam list-users
```

# Terraform

Let's do this all in code! See [terraform.md](terraform.md).